+++
title = "About"
authorTwitter = "luigifcruz"
showFullContent = false
+++

My name is Luigi Cruz and I’m a Computer Engineering student currently based in Brazil developing projects utilizing Software Defined Radios, Micro-Controllers, or FPGAs primarily for Satellite Telecommunications and Digital Signal Processing projects. I also developed avionics modules for high-performance model rockets for university student competitions.

This website is for documenting the projects that I worked on. They are going to have something about RF Communications, Digital Signal Processing, FPGAs, Machine Learning, Rockets, Software Engineering, or electronics in general. Enjoy!

## Formal Education & Experience
- **Computer Engineering (2015-2022)** &mdash; Federal University of Technology - Brazil
- **Undergraduate Research (2017-present)** &mdash; Machine Learning & Computer Vision
- **Open Satellite Project (2017-present)** &mdash; Writing Software for Satellite Datalinks
- **MacMagazine.com.br (2017-present)** &mdash; Developer & Technology Consultant
- **Academic Rocket Team (2016-2018)** &mdash; Avionics Department Leader

> Feel free to [contact me](/contact) for my complete **resumé**!

## Talks & Presentations
These are my talks, here you can find the slides and the video if they were recorded. If you have any question, don't hesitate to [contact me](/contact)!

##### SciPy Conference 2022 - GPU Accelerated FM Demodulation
<cite>July, 2022 - Austin, Texas - USA</cite> &mdash; Talk about the process of demodulating real-world FM stations in parallel with elemental Numpy and SciPy Signal functions. Focusing on techniques, like vectorization, buffering, and frequency-domain filters, to make the computation more computationally efficient to achieve real-time operation. We also discuss how to apply GPU acceleration with CuPy and cuSignal.

{{< youtube Q1QCJTvOlP8 >}}

> [Read the Slides](/media/SciPy_2022_Talk_Multiple_FM_Stations.pdf)

##### SciPy Conference 2022 - GPU Accelerated TurboSETI Poster 
<cite>July, 2022 - Austin, Texas - USA</cite> &mdash; A common technique adopted by the SETI community is monitoring electromagnetic radiation for signs of extraterrestrial technosignatures using ground-based radio observatories. The data stream generated by a telescope can easily reach the rate of terabits per second. The analysis is made using a Python-based software called TurboSETI to detect narrowband drifting signals inside the recordings that can mean a technosignature (E.T.). We discuss how we ported a CPU-only program to leverage the parallel capabilities of a GPU using CuPy, Numba, and custom CUDA kernels.

> [Read the Poster](/media/SciPy_2022_Poster_TurboSETI.pdf)

##### Equinix Interview - Metal Meets: Radio
<cite>March, 2020 - Livestream</cite> &mdash; Me, Jeremy, and Ed talk about Software Defined Radio and ARM Single Board Computers and PiSDR.

{{< youtube 6h2tfoe-SIM >}}

##### Cyberspectrum #23 - WirelessVillage DEFCON
<cite>August, 2018 - Caesars Palace, Las Vegas - USA</cite> &mdash; Talk about the development of the Open Satellite Project software to demodulate, decode and parse data sent from the new generation of weather satellites from NASA and NOAA (NPOESS/NPP) via the High Data Rate X-Band Datalink.

{{< youtube Q6ITlQYNVDQ >}}

> [Read the Slides](/media/XBand_Satellites_Datalink.pdf)

##### AMSAT-BR & LABRE - Satellite Amateur Workshop
<cite>November, 2017 - Pardinho, São Paulo - Brazil</cite> &mdash; Introductory talk about Open Satellite Project software. From geostationary satellites to polar-orbiting X-Band satellites.

> [Read the Slides](/media/open_satellite_project_2nd_labre.pdf)

##### Campus Party Brasil 11 `[PT-BR]`
<cite>February, 2018 - Anhembi Convention Center, Brazil</cite> &mdash; Talk with [Lucas Teske](https://twitter.com/lucasteske) about the software stack provided by the Open Satellite Project to decode, demodulate and parse weather satellite data from sun-synchronous or geostationary orbits.

{{< youtube 6-DszQuLtgs >}}
